---
layout: people
github_username: kk3154
last_name: King
first_name: Kristen
permalink: /people/kk3154/
---

# Research Interests

My current research interests broadly include public health and disparities in access to care and outcomes, and more specifically I am interested in kidney disease. I currently work with the Columbia University Renal Epidemiology (CURE) research group doing research focused on kidney transplantation.

My first major [project](https://cjasn.asnjournals.org/content/14/10/1500.long) with the group looked at disparities in access to preemptive deceased donor kidney transplantation. We found significant racial and insurance-based disparities that worsened after changes to the kidney allocation system in 2014, highlighting the need for additional efforts to ensure equitable access to preemptive transplantation, or perhaps a [reconsideration](https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1111/ajt.16392) of preemptive waitlisting and allocation policy in the United States.

Other recent projects have also looked into the process of deceased donor kidney allocation and how transplant centers respond to offers of donor kidneys for their waitlisted patients. Transplant centers frequently decline offers of matched donor kidneys for their patients, typically over donor/organ quality concerns and the belief that their patients will receive a better offer in the near future, which doesn't always happen in time before they die or are removed from the waitlist. At the system level, frequent declines lead to about 1 in every 5 donor kidneys recovered for transplant being discarded while almost a hundred thousand patients are still waiting for a kidney in the US. This subjective decision-making by physicians and transplant centers around which kidneys to accept or decline is not always transparent, and [varies](https://jasn.asnjournals.org/content/early/2020/10/09/ASN.2020030335.long) dramatically between centers which may significantly impact patients' access to transplantation. This is an area where better predictive models and clinical decision support tools might help physicians to overcome risk-averse biases around organ offer decision-making and could potentially lead to more patients being transplanted and fewer donor kidneys being discarded.